Keycloak describes itself as an open source identity management solution.
In a nutshell, it's a Java-based authentication and authorization server.
It has been around since 2013, has an Apache open source license,
is actively being developed mainly by Red Hat developers,
but also a large active open source community.
There is also a commercial offering, Red Hat SSO,
which is the same product,
but it gives you that additional support from Red Hat
that your organization might need.
Now in my opinion, it has the best documentation and guides,
which is one of the reasons I like to use it.
It has all the features our application will require and more,
single sign-on, supports all the key protocols,
SAML, OAuth2, OpenID Connect,
integrates with directory services so you can easily
integrate it in your organization, and a multitude of features,
like two-factor authentication, email verification,
user registration, social sign-in, like Google and Facebook,
and much more.
It's also very customizable and extendable.
You can write your own adapters and plugins and even format the login
registration pages to your application's look and feel.
Now I should mention, there is also CloudFoundry UAA Server,
which is also open sourced and is actively developed by Pivotal,
the creator of Spring and actually built with Spring.
It's very similar and is also a good candidate for an authorization server. Next we will look at how to install Keycloak.